

Sentences in cluster # 0
grasp the bar ( which will rest against the back of your neck ) ; ;
When the front knee is straight and locked , allow it to bend again until you feel the bar come lightly into contact with the sides of the Power Stands .
Although I suggested that you hold the bar at the back of the neck there's no reason why you shouldn't make some experiments with the bar held in front of the neck .
Position these using six intermediate temporary Af spacers and locate the upper 12'' '' bar `` A '' .
As an anchor for the spring lock , insert a Af bar in the lower left corner of the frame as shown in Fig. 7 .
Since the same method of shaping and fitting the dogs and notches is used throughout , we will only describe the construction of one locking bar .
Place the locking bar in proper position and insert tappet 3 .
Scribe V-shaped lines on the bar and rough out with either a hack saw or a cutting disk in a hand power tool .
For arm and shoulder strength a chinning bar is recommended .
It was the silver foil from the chocolate bar he had been eating .
That is , when first penetration takes place , the pressure and pain signals may involuntarily cause all the vaginal muscles to contract in an effort to bar the intrusion and prevent further pain .
Blue Throat was slumped with his back against the bar , elbows supporting his massive frame .
A bullet gouged into the bar top an inch from Tilghman's stomach as Blue Throat's henchmen started shooting .


Sentences in cluster # 1
The parallel bars , horse , buck , springboard , horizontal bar , rings , and mats formerly in the school gyms were replaced by baseball , volleyball , basketball and football .
When the Revolution broke out , he , along with Jefferson and Jay , abandoned his career at the bar , with considerable financial sacrifice .
The reporter nodded as he moved up beside him at the bar .
Outside , Shayne hesitated when he saw that Rourke had parked his coupe directly in front of the bar headed south .
A taxi took him back to the bar and grill where he had left his car , and a few minutes later he found a parking place across the street from his apartment .
`` Gyp'll be holdin' forth in some bar if he's here at all '' , Cobb declared , glancing along the street as they stretched their legs .
Reaching the porch rail beyond view of the bar windows , he feverishly scanned the busy street below .
A hall opened in back of the bar , running toward an ell .
Chairs scraped back and customers hastily vacated their tables as the tall young buffalo hunter pushed open the swing doors and walked towards the bar .


Sentences in cluster # 2
Two or more dogs are mounted on each locking bar .
Now cut five Af locking bar spacers ( which run horizontally ) .
Solder it and the five locking bar spacers to the frame .
Cap the locking bar spacers with two Af directly under the first two `` B '' pieces .
Put the 12 tappets and some Af locking bar spacers in the frame to help align all the components before you tighten the screws .
Drill two No. 50 holes , one in the insert and one in the locking bar spacer directly above it , and tap 2-56 .
Cut five pieces of Af brass bar stock 3-3/4'' '' long .
) Put a 2-56 roundhead screw into the hole , cut off the excess threads and file flush with the underside of the bar .
Scribe a line across the bar on the other end of the tappet , 1/4'' '' plus half the diameter of the 2-56 screw head ( about 5/64'' '' ) away from the frame edge .
Center-punch and drill the No. 31 hole 7/16'' '' from one end of the bar .
Cut the piece about 9/32'' '' or 5/16'' '' long and drive it into the No. 31 hole drilled in the locking bar .
File the bottom edge flush with the bar and the top 1/8'' '' above the bar .
No bottle pool is tolerated -- bottle pool being our lingo for those who come to swim and sink into our bar while protesting that they can only dunk and run .
He was standing at the end of the bar enjoying a slug of cognac when Rourke came in six or eight minutes later .
Two men murmured with their heads together at the end of the bar , while the sleek-headed bartender absently polished a glass .
Tilghman leapt on to him , dragged him upright and hit him again , this time sending him careening against the bar .


Sentences in cluster # 3
Cap this assembly ( with spacing bars in place ) with a Af bar .
Cap with a Af bar and tack-solder in place .
He and Irvin Moll were sipping coffee at the breakfast bar .
The tables were all spinning , the dice rattling , the bar crowded .


Sentences in cluster # 4
Would bar vehicles
But the internationalists have taken over the governing body of the bar , and when the lads met in St. Louis , it was not to grumble about the humidity but to vote unanimously that the United Nations was scarcely less than wonderful , despite an imperfection here and there .
Recognition of Prisoners Union rule that no member of an iron or steel workers union be permitted to repair a sawed-off bar without approval and participation of representative of the cell occupant .
Susan Johnson , as the widow , spends the first half of the play running a bar and singing about the unlamented death of her late husband and the second half trying to acquire a new one .
All went home happy except the Newport police , who feared that the throng departing at 6:35 might meet head-on the night crowd drawing nigh , and those deprived of their happy hour at the cocktail bar .
Each completed locking bar should remain in place as the work progresses to insure snug fitting .
An ex-fighter was introduced to her in a bar as `` Mr. Warfield , the famous producer '' .
As long as the bar prefers to adduce evidence by written deposition , rather than viva voce before an authoritative judicial officer , I fear that the antiquated rules will remain unchanged , and expensive prolixity remain the best known characteristic of Equity '' .
Not least among the members of the patent bar who echoed this powerful indictment were those who had participated in the Selden suit .
Noting the complaints of inventors and members of the patent bar , he admitted that some of the strictures `` were fairly well founded '' , but he added that under existing rules the courts could not consolidate testimony in a group of suits involving separate infringements of the same patent .
The latter in turn assured him that `` were I arraigned at the bar , and you my judge , I should expect to stand or fall only by the merits of my cause '' .
One day in a bar , so the legend goes , someone put a beer stein with too much force on the monacle and broke it .
Whenever the Secretary of the Treasury , or the Comptroller General of the United States , as the case may be , shall find that any person is entitled to any such payment , after such payment shall have been received by such person , it shall be an absolute bar to recovery by any other person against the United States , its officers , agents , or employees with respect to such payment .
This , however , did not bar finding that Du Pont had become pre-eminent as a supplier of automotive fabrics and finishes to General Motors ; ;
The advantages and disadvantages of these two types of charting , bar charting and point and figure charting , remain the subject of fairly good-natured litigation among their respective professional advocates , with both methods enjoying in common , one irrevocable merit .
Mickie sat over his second whisky-on-the-rocks in a little bar next to the funeral parlor on Pennsylvania Avenue .
Hanging over the bar was an oil painting of a nude Al had accepted from a student at the Corcoran Gallery who needed to eat and drink and was broke .
Sipping their coffee , discussing the weather , the day's shopping , Fritzie's commitments at the network ( all of which he would cancel ) , they avoided the radio , the morning TV news show , even the front page of the Santa Luisa Register , resting on the kitchen bar .
I finally went downstairs to the bar off the main lobby where most of the cast were drowning their sorrows over the untimely passing of Ask Tony .
I laid a tenspot on the bar and motioned to the bartender to serve a round .
The bartender brought Rourke's drink and Shayne laid a twenty-dollar bill on the bar .
He called the bar and grill where he had picked Burton up that afternoon .
It was the same bar , and it was two weeks later -- Saturday night , when he had an excuse to drink heavier than usual .
Glowering looks met them in the bar , but there was no attempt to halt them .
`` Probably down at the bar .
The last thing I remember is a bar in San Diego '' --
