

Sentences in cluster # 0
There are many who predict that should Barnett decide to call the Legislature back into special session , it will really throw his administration into a scramble .
Legislators always get restless for a special session ( whether for the companionship or the $22.50 per diem is not certain ) and if they start agitating .
He could terminate special sessions of the Legislature .
About 200 of the special V-1 rocket-bombs were to be made ready for manned flight with an explosive warhead .
A portable kerosene range designed for use aboard boats is sold with a special railing to keep it from moving with the motion of the vessel .
Student Prince Lounge on Atlantic Blvd. plotting a month-long `` festival '' throughout October , with special features .
Alla Sizova , who seems to have made a special hit in the East , was delightful as the lady Bluebird and her partner , Yuri Soloviev , was wonderfully virile , acrobatic , and poetic all at the same time , in a tradition not unlike that of Nijinsky .
I have been absolutely shocked at the ineptness of the young ladies who are servicing person-to-person calls , special long-distance calls , etc. .
A special grandstand , protected by awnings from the midsummer sun of Illinois , should be erected for occupancy by honored guests , who should include the ambassadors of all those new African nations as yet not quite convinced that the United States is thoroughly civilized .
It seems that Khrushchev himself took a very special pride in having made a world-shaking contribution to Marxist doctrine with his Draft Program ( a large part of his twelve-hour speech at the recent Congress was , in fact , very largely a rehash of that interminable document ) .
His bel canto style gave the performance a special distinction .
In some of the numbers the instrumental parts have even been recorded at different times and then later combined on the master tape to produce special effects .
The Rachmaninoff Prelude No. 12 , Op. 32 , for instance , gave her an opportunity to exploit one of her special facilities -- the ability to produce fine deep-sounding bass tones while contrasting them simultaneously with fine silver filagree in the treble .
stereo BGS 5031 ) is a good sample of the special , elegant art of English madrigal singing .
The mushrooming of FM outlets , offering concerts ( both jazz and classical ) , lectures , and other special events , is a phenomenon which has had a fair amount of publicity .
He even buys a lot of the products he sees advertised -- despite the fact that the copy makes no special bid for his favor and sponsors rarely use any but white models in commercials .
Advertisers have discovered the tendency of Negroes to shop for brand names they have heard on stations catering to their special interests .
Any musician playing Beethoven here , where Beethoven was born , is likely to examine his own interpretations with special care .
good radio drama has its own special demands that badly need reinvigoration .
( 2 ) accepts instead a special biblical hermeneutics or method of interpretation ; ;
but , as he had a special fondness for magic and divination , he ordered that books on these subjects should be spared .
In fact , the neat balance of these pairs , and their subtle equilibrium , would have had special meaning in the minds of the Old Chinese .
His soil was `` nothing special '' , just prairie land , but he had harrowed in compost until it was loose , spongy and brown-black .
A salad with greens and tomato is a popular and wonderfully healthful addition to a meal , but add an avocado and you have something really special .
These are made on special order only , in Kodiak grade ( about $310 ) , with integral muzzle brakes and heavy rubber recoil pads ; ;
For this reason , U.S. Camera has prepared this special U.S.A. vacation feature .
At Cypress Gardens special bleachers are set up for photographers at water-ski shows and lovely models pose for pictures in garden settings .
For example , the Chamber of Commerce of Gatlinburg , Tennessee , sponsors special camera tours into the Great Smoky Mountains to get pictures of the profusion of wild flowers flourishing in these wooded regions .
Other thicknesses may necessitate ripping a special size lumber for the glass trim .
This can be done by stories in your house organs , posters , special publications , letters to workers' homes as well as by word of mouth through your chain of command .
Do you yearn to make cakes and pies , or special cookies and candies ? ?
Palfrey told his wife of his intentions for the first time , and left for New Orleans apprehensively invoking a special blessing of Providence that he might be allowed to see his family again .
One of the President's special assistants , the Harvard dean McGeorge Bundy , was co-author with Henry L. Stimson of the latter's classic memoir , On Active Service .
In a far distant part of the United States , I was talking to an instructor about a boy who in the twelfth grade was doing special work .
Colors of cattle came in for their special names .
This had a pleasant effect upon the Sunday gate receipts as well as upon the intake of the rail and bus companies , some of which began to offer special excursion rates , including seats at the park , just as the trolley and ferry companies had when baseball was new .
And no messages can be transmitted on these circuits until senders and receivers authenticate in advance , by special codes , that the messages actually come from their purported sources .
`` Now that Bruno Walter is virtually in retirement and my dear friend Dimitri Mitropoulos is no longer with us , I am probably the only one -- with the possible exception of Leonard Bernstein -- who has this special affinity for and champions the works of Bruckner and Mahler '' .
The answers derived by these means may determine not only the temporal organization of the dance but also its spatial design , special slips designating the location on the stage where the movement is to be performed .
The Charles Men consists not of a connected narrative but of a group of short stories , each depicting a special phase of the general subject .
and she recited `` Hector's Farewell To Andromache '' most movingly , to the special delight of Rabbi Jastrow at his home in Germantown near Philadelphia , where the Szold girls took turns visiting between the visits of the Jastrow boys at the Szolds' in Baltimore .
I had long since begun to lose my general innocence when I lost my trust in you , but this special innocence I lost before ever I loved , through my discovery that one could tremble with desire and even experience a flaming delight that had nothing , nothing whatever to do with friendship or liking , let alone with love .
Each song or ditty was prefaced by an author's note which indicated the origin and meaning of the song as well as special interest the song had , musical arrangement , and most of the chorus and verses .
but involvement needs to be accompanied by a special frame of mind .
But there is one in particular which , it seems to me , deserves special attention .
There is a second feature of the influences of literature , good literature , on emotional life which may have some special value for our time .
The volume is a piece of passionate special pleading , written with the heat -- and often with the wisdom , it must be said -- of a Liberal damning the shortsightedness of politicians from 1782 to 1832 .
In addition , he believed in the `` dramatic unity and separateness of the period from 1702-14 , lying between the Stuart and Hanoverian eras with a special ethos of its own '' .
A special guard was posted at my end of the bridge to make sure I didn't cross , the ludicrousness of the situation being revealed fully in that everyone else -- men , women , and children , dogs , cats , horses , cars , trucks , baby carriages -- could cross Kehl bridge into Kehl without surveillance .
The special guard , however , was still posted on Kehl bridge .
For those little men with the short whiskers , shaven polls , and top knots Suvorov reserved a special esteem .
On the way out Mr. Sakellariadis detoured up a special hill from which one may obtain a matchless view of the Acropolis lighted by night .
There must have been special feelings of joy and patriotism in the heart of Daniel Morgan too , when the news was received on April 30th of the recognition by France of the independence of the United States .
Yet , the idea imbedded in each was identical : to surround the unknown with mystery and to isolate that class which had been given special dominion over the secrets of God .
To do this successfully required great skill and a special talent for both solemn and ribald raillery , a talent not bestowed on many persons , but one with which Milton was marked as being endowed and in which , at least in this performance , he obviously reveled .
But I've got news for Krim : he's not typical , he's pretty special .
Berto's The Sky Is Red had been a small masterpiece and in its special way the best book to come out of the war .
Plans vary from the `` talking stage '' to establishing special committees to accomplish this end .
and now , therefore , do I , John A. Notte , Jr. , Governor of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations , proclaim the week of Monday , November 13 , 1961 , as the State Ballet of Rhode Island Week , requesting all Rhode Islanders to give special attention to this unusual event which should contribute to the cultural life of the State .
Occasional features were published on historical medicine , special reports , bibliography , and `` Collector's Items '' .
While there should be no general age limit or restriction to one sex , there will be particular projects requiring special maturity and some open only to men or to women .
In the grinding machine field , expansion went far from universal grinders alone and took in cylindrical grinders , surface grinders , and a wide variety of special and semi-special models .
The bubble was filled to the top and special precautions were taken to prevent any sample from remaining in the capillary .
One might digress at this point and speculate that if it is `` wise '' to create special sections for special status , then why not a special section for women pregnant before marriage , and one for 44-year-old men with teenage children , and so on .
The writer began this special class by explaining his background thinking for creating such a section in the first place .
A stock transaction for less than a hundred shares is executed via a special odd-lot broker on the floor of the exchange .
Here , perhaps , Fromm is vulnerable , for he does not always use the best and most recent evidence available , and he sometimes selects and interprets the evidence in rather special ways .
A special template is furnished with the apparatus to enable marking a specimen for a central measuring area and the fabric extensions to the clamps ( see Fig. 2 ) .
Examples of such situations are ( aerial ) night reconnaissance , the recording of radioactive tracers in live body tissues , special radiography in medical or industrial applications , track recording of high energy particles , etc. .
At the same time , every device that can be employed to reduce the number of variables is of the greatest value , and it is one of the attractive features of dynamic programming that room is left for ingenuity in using the special features of the problem to this end .
Virginia treated him with attention and tried to tempt his appetite with special food : biscuits , cookies , candies -- the result of devoted hours in the tiled kitchen .
The phone had been disconnected but telegrams came for him and notes by special messenger .
The air took on a special strength now that they'd left the fecund warmth of the farmland behind .
Then epistolatory me was a foreign correspondent dispatching exciting cables and communiques , full of dash and wit and glamor , quoting from the books I read , imitating the grand styles of the authors recommended by a teacher in whose special , after-school class I was enrolled .
I tell you , I know how it is with you , my friend , I sympathize , and I'll make it a special point -- a special favor -- get in touch , and get some stuff just for you .
We'd seen his handiwork out in the back yard , and the little his tenants had told us of him did make him sound a little special .
As the afternoon sped toward evening , the suite saw a steady procession of Paxton aides pass in and out , each with his own special problem .
Motion picture cameras had been installed to film the audience , the reservation list was being checked out name by name , and a special detail was already at work in the parking lot scrutinizing automobiles for a possible lead .
There was , of course , no special reason to believe that the man or woman they sought had stayed only overnight at the hotel .
Failing to find what was wanted , as was most likely , check out other guests , with special -- but not exclusive -- attention to those with rooms on the street .
Aside from the fact that business was slow this time of year and his one salesgirl was not the most enterprising , Mr. Phillips had no worries at all , and he said as much to Gun Matson , who sat across from him in civilian clothes , on a Jiffy-Couch-a-Bed , mauve velour , $79.89 nothing-down special ! !
She was not alone for there were three other such children in the big city's special nursery .
Yet he did drop his badinage with the ordinary country girl as much in deference to the Grafin as acknowledgement that here , indeed , was something special .
He read a special announcement whereby Hurrays would feature a special floorshow at three A.M. starring Adele ( The Body ) Brenner and fourteen glamorous schoolgirls .
His rock was special because no one on the beach could see him here .
Chris made trip after trip in our old car , moving the clothes and dishes and the stock of groceries Nadine had bought on special .
There wasn't anything of special interest that morning , no one sicker than they should have been .
Something special was going on here just now -- the annual display of azalea plants .


Sentences in cluster # 1
Davis may use the tax bill as a means to effect a transition from special sessions of the Legislature to normalcy .
Patrolman George Kimmell , of McClellan Station , said he would recommend a special safety citation for Ralph Sisk , 9230 Vernor east , a third grader at the Scripps School , for his assistance in the case .
It said the tax-freedom of the gain in this case stemmed not from the exempt status of the income but from a special rule on corporate liquidations .
The need for and the way to achieve a Christian home will be stressed in special services marking National Christian Family Week in Miami area churches next week .
To understand the past history -- and the future potential -- of American Catholic higher education , it is necessary to appreciate the special character of the esprit de corps of the religious community .
But he insisted that it be housed in a special museum .
`` Olivetti had a special interest for Hodges .
The situation with regard to the Southern Pacific was therefore a special one and not necessarily applicable to other situations in other industries .
The concept of labor as a special class is outmoded , and in the task confronting America as bastion of the free world , labor must learn to put the national interest first if it is itself to survive .
Gen. Taylor , the President's special military adviser , is a level-headed officer who is not likely to succumb to propaganda or pressure .
Several dentists and patients with special dental problems have experimented with the device .
But why is it the special responsibility of the CTA to help these people ? ?
If a customer wishes a special cut , it will not be available .
According to the official interpretation of the Charter , a member cannot be penalized by not having the right to vote in the General Assembly for nonpayment of financial obligations to the `` special '' United Nations' budgets , and of course cannot be expelled from the Organization ( which you suggested in your editorial ) , due to the fact that there is no provision in the Charter for expulsion .
This may be unfortunate , perhaps , from the standpoint of David Hedison , Providence's contribution to Hollywood , who is appearing by special arrangement with 20th Century-Fox .
Advertising copy frequently takes into account matters of special Negro concern .
The importance of this 5 can largely be explained by the natural mathematical properties of the middle number and its special relationship to all the rest of the numbers -- quite apart from any numerological considerations , which is to say , any symbolic meaning arbitrarily assigned to it .
But this esoteric doctrine was lost in the shuffle to acquire special powers .
Any special photographic requirements are also given .
Of special interest this anniversary year of the war between the states are the many Civil War battlefields where , likely as not , you'll catch some memorial re-enactments .
In any case , there is no special milling or rabbeting required for the panels .
The remedies have been many and varied -- attempts to teach management techniques -- either in plant , at special schools , or in university `` crash '' courses -- provision of management-trained assistants or associates .
Additional symbols of status are granted , such as reserved parking , distinctive badge passes authorizing special privileges , and a difference in the treatment of financial progress through merit .
The Government housing agencies consider it feasible with one special stipulation .
Actually , you can take no special credit for this .
Apart from the standard problem of controlling the vaginal muscles , other serious barriers may exist that need special gynecological treatment .
He milks the latest scientific advances , translating them into his own special Buck Rogers vocabulary to huckster his fake machines as a cure-all for everything from hay fever to sexual impotence and cancer .
Richard Stewart is no special case .
But if the Trial did not expose the special Nazi mania so deadly to Jews as well as to anyone upon whom it happened to light , neither did it warn very effectively against the ordinary anti-Semitism of which the Nazis made such effective use in Germany and wherever else they could find it .
And while every writer must be dealt with as a special case , the interested student will want to ask himself a number of questions about each .
and in particular -- since this is our special responsibility -- that these conditions be enjoyed by the people of the United States .
They have a sense of marginality at being denied that special badge of status , the out-of-town school .
Yet even if he could get the necessary approval , fourteen of his Negroes could not be manumitted without special permission .
The taking of depositions , he suggested , should be placed under a special court examiner empowered to compel responsive and relevant answers and to exclude immaterial testimony .
The company was impressed with some ideas of the danger from Carolina , and when Perier came over as governor in 1727 , he was given special instructions regarding the trade of the Mobile district .
Some , like the British and the French , maintain an elaborate system of personal contacts and have experts constantly studying special areas of the American scene .
For lawyers , reflecting perhaps their parochial preferences , there has been a special fascination since then in the role played by the Supreme Court in that transformation -- the manner in which its decisions altered in `` the switch in time that saved nine '' , President Roosevelt's ill-starred but in effect victorious `` Court-packing plan '' , the imprimatur of judicial approval that was finally placed upon social legislation .
The same principle of `` redundancy '' applies to all communications on these special networks .
In addition to the authentication and acknowledgment procedures which precede and follow the sending of the go messages , again in special codes , each message also contains an `` internal authenticator '' , another specific signal to convince the recipient that he is getting the real thing .
Accordingly , they took special pains to preserve their papers as essential sources for posterity .
Networks illustrating some special types of organization
We would be ignoring the special circumstances of other countries .
In light of all this , one would require special reasons for saying that the paths of the heavenly bodies were other than circular .
The strongest appeal of the Copernican formulation consisted in just this : ideally , the justification for dealing with special problems in particular ways is completely set out in the basic ' rules ' of the theory .
The final section of this pamphlet is of special interest in a consideration of Steele's relations with Swift .
Two facets of this aspect of the literary process have special significance for our time .
Usually the work studied offers us a special or even an individualized rendering or treatment of the ideas in question , so that the student finds it necessary to distinguish carefully between the several expressions of an `` -ism '' or mode of thought .
Still , we must remember that we cannot construct and justify generalizations of this sort unless we are ready to consider many special instances of influence moving between such areas as theology , philosophy , political thought , and literature .
Moreover , they have done so in rather special circumstances .
In Europe , Premier Clemenceau , showing his animal proclivities as the `` Tiger of France '' , asked Pershing by letter for the creation of special houses where the sexual desires of American men could be satisfied .
Adams contended that once such a special class had been created it became a vested interest and sought to maintain itself by assuming exclusive control over the relationships between God and man .
He had also sampled various special fields of learning , being unable to miss some study of divinity , Justinian ( law ) , and Galen ( medicine ) .
It is not within the scope of this report to elaborate in any great detail upon special districts in Rhode Island .
These forty-seven special purpose governments have the authority to levy taxes , to borrow money , own property , sue and be sued , and in general to exercise normal corporate powers .
There shall be covered into the Treasury to the credit of the proper special fund all funds hereinafter specified .
Some special health requirements might have to be met .
The Peace Corps can either begin in very low gear , with only preparatory work undertaken between now and when Congress finally appropriates special funds for it -- or it can be launched now and in earnest by executive action , with sufficient funds and made available from existing Mutual Security appropriations to permit a number of substantial projects to start this summer .
If it is decided to make a small shift which may be required from military aid or special assistance funds , in order to carry out the purposes of the Mutual Security Act through this new peaceful program , this will be a hopeful sign to the world .
Our plan is to keep abreast of these advances , and select for development those fields which seem most promising for our special capabilities .
The only effect of lack of a center would then be to release the hydrogen atoms to occupy general , rather than special , positions along the ( 111 ) axis .
I must plead guilty to a special sympathy for nomias .
A change in the balance to the parasympathetic side leads in the normal individual to sleep or , in special circumstances , to cardiovascular collapse or nausea and vomiting .
We can do this through the characteristic values and vectors of T in certain special cases , i.e. , when the minimal polynomial for T factors over the scalar field F into a product of distinct monic polynomials of degree 1 .
The diagonalizable operator is the special case of this in which Af for each i .
The reader will find it helpful to think of the special case when the primes are of degree 1 , and even more particularly , to think of the proof of Theorem 10 , a special case of this theorem .
In the notation of the proof of Theorem 12 , let us take a look at the special case in which the minimal polynomial for T is a product of first-degree polynomials , i.e. , the case in which each Af is of the form Af .
Our technical assistance to these countries should place special emphasis on inducing the central governments to assume the role of advisor and guide which at an earlier stage foreign experts assumed in dealing with the central governments .
The work of Fonds Reine Elisabeth pour l'Assistance Medicale aux Indigenes Du Congo Belge ( FOREAMI ) has special interest with respect to demography .
Another use of roleplaying for evaluation illustrates how this procedure can be used in real life situations without special equipment or special assistants during the daily course of work .
Additional courses can readily be added and special cooperative programs worked out with any new industry if the basic facilities , staff and program are in being .
Political interference in Africa and Asia and even in Latin America ( though limited in Latin America by the special interest of the United States as expressed in the Monroe Doctrine , itself from the outset related to European politics and long dependent upon the `` balance of power '' system in Europe ) was necessary in order to preserve both common economic values and the European `` balance '' itself .
In 1910 it required the convening of a special three-judge court for the issuance of certain injunctions and allowed direct appeals to the Supreme Court .
For example , property `` used in the trade or business '' of a transferor corporation , as defined in section 1231 , presumably would not retain its special status following a non-taxable reorganization if it is not so used in the business of the acquiring corporation .
Probably the primary reason for special treatment of a net operating loss carryover is the unique opportunity it presents for tax avoidance .
These specialists perform valuable services by helping teachers learn to identify children who need special attention , by suggesting ways of meeting the needs of individual children in the regular classroom , and by providing clinical services for severely maladjusted children .
It is a commonplace that to the degree these special preserves of past philosophic hunting grounds establish an empirical content and suitable methodological criteria , they move away from philosophy as such .
Resolved that his wrongs and bereavements in Kansas , occasioned by the violence and brutality of those who were intent on the propagation of slavery in that territory , call for a charitable judgment upon his recent efforts in Virginia to undermine the despotism from which he had suffered , and commend his family to the special sympathy and aid of all who pity suffering and reverence justice .
The special syntactical effects of a Rimbaud or an Edith Sitwell -- actually ornaments -- become the main concern .
Otherwise , special care must be taken to branch around them so that the program will not attempt to execute something in a data area as an instruction .
A series of eight special tests were conducted at different rotor speeds to determine the oxygen transfer rate .
special equipment required for registering respiration and for recording the contraction of smooth muscles under various conditions was developed by the Instruments Section ( Victor Jackman , W. C. Barnes , J. F. Reiss ) ; ;
Of special concern is the growth of bacteria such as Clostridium botulinum which generate poisonous products .
What right had John to any special consideration ? ?
Now she must be thinking of a boy-name , something special .
Signora Ferraro , bobbing her head encouragingly , asked Sam about Canada , having a special interest .


Sentences in cluster # 2
The bill is designed to provide special schooling for more deaf students in the scholastic age at a reduced cost to the state .
The third amended the enabling act for creation of the Lamar county Hospital District , for which a special constitutional amendment previously was adopted .
Marshall Formby of Plainview , former chairman of the Texas Highway Commission , suggested a plan to fill by appointment future vacancies in the Legislature and Congress , eliminating the need for costly special elections .
Contempt proceedings originally had been brought against 677 persons in 133 precincts by Morris J. Wexler , special prosecutor .
The President , in a special message to Congress , tied in with his aged care plan requests for large federal grants to finance medical and dental scholarships , build 20 new medical and 20 new dental schools , and expand child health care and general medical research .
Simultaneously the President announced Thursday the appointment of David L. Hackett , a special assistant to the Attorney General , as executive director of the new Committee on Juvenile Delinquency and Youth Crime .
Mr. Martinelli has , in recent weeks , been of the opinion that a special town meeting would be called for the vote , while Mr. Bourcier said that a special election might be called instead .
Action on a new ordinance permitting motorists who plead guilty to minor traffic offenses to pay fines at the local police station may be taken at Monday's special North Providence Town Council meeting .
A special presentation was made to Mrs. Geraldine Thompson of Red Bank , who is stepping down after 35 years on the committee .
If Barnett doesn't call a special session in 1961 , it will be the first year in the last decade that the Legislature has not met in regular or special session .
The odds favor a special session , more than likely early in the year .
In either case , it could call a special session of the Legislature later in 1961 to make another stab at raising additional revenues through a tax raiser .
The Texas Aggies got a day off Monday -- a special gift from Coach Jim Myers for its conference victory last Saturday night , but Myers announced that halfback George Hargett , shaken up in the Tech game , would not play against Trinity Saturday .
With the announcement of a `` special achievement award '' to William A. ( ( Bill ) Shea , the awards list was completed yesterday for Sunday night's thirty-eighth annual dinner and show of the New York Chapter , Baseball Writers' Association of America , at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel .
In addition , a special award was given to Bob ( Bevo ) Nordmann , the 6-foot-10 center who missed much of the season because of a knee injury .
Annapolis , Jan. 7 ( special )
`` In the same five year period that the United States says they ( the detectives ) were engaged in this conspiracy '' , Sokol continued , `` these three young men received a total of 26 creditable mentions and many special compensations , and were nominated for the Lambert Tree award and the mayor's medal '' .
Agriculture Department economists estimate the Government this year will hand farmers $1.4 billion in special subsidies and incentive payments , well above the record $1.1 billion of 1958 and about double the $639 million of 1960 .
hear that Patricia Murphy flies up to St. John's Newfoundland , next Sunday to attend the government's special ceremonies at Memorial University honoring distinguished sons and daughters of the island province .
To start the week of special programs at the church , the Rev. John D. Henderson will preach on `` A Successful Marriage '' at 9:40 and 11 a.m. Sunday .
The season in San Francisco will open with a special Gala Concert on November 22 .
At 4 p.m. the President left the White House to welcome the young musicians , students from the ages of 12 to 18 who spend six weeks at the Brevard Music Center summer camp , and to greet the 325 crippled , cardiac and blind children from the District area who were special guests at the concert .
The wartime protocol of September 12 , 1944 , designated a special `` Greater Berlin '' area , comprising the entire city , to be under joint occupation .
-- Rep. Frelinghuysen , R-5th Dist. , had a special reason for attending the reception at the Korean Embassy for Gen. Chung Hee Park , the new leader of South Korea .
But they refuse , as do the Arab states , to support the United Nations' expenses of maintaining the United Nations Emergency Force in the Middle East as a buffer between Egypt and Israel , and the U.N. troops in the Congo , which expenses are not covered by the regular budget of the United Nations , but by a special budget .
These and other figures and comments have been reported in a special supplement of Sponsor magazine , a trade publication for radio and TV advertisers .
Furthermore , news and special presentations inform the listener about groups , projects , and personalities rarely mentioned on a general-appeal station .
auto , the Sport-King , in two grades -- field and special ( less than $45 and just over $45 , respectively ) .
In the command centers there are special clocks ready to tick off the minutes elapsed since `` E hour '' .
To escape from a prison camp required a very special state of mind ; ;
On January 24 Paul Bang-Jensen , accompanied by Adolf Berle , was met by Dragoslav Protitch and Colonel Frank Begley , former Police Chief of Farmington , Conn. , and now head of U.N. special police .
Until 1958 the state was also entitled to a special type of manufacturers' discount through the dealers .
In addition to the regular schedule , advertisements were run for maximum impact in special editions of the New York Times , Boston Herald , American Banker , Electronic News and , for local promotion , the Providence Sunday Journal .
Other special mailings by the Industrial Division included copies of speeches delivered at the Governor's Conference , letters and brochures to conferees at Med-Chemical Symposium at University of Rhode Island and letters and reprints of industrial advertisements to such organizations as Society of Industrial Realtors .
There are forty-seven special district governments in Rhode Island ( excluding two regional school districts , four housing authorities , and the Kent County Water Authority ) .
In addition to the collection of service charges , the special districts levy annual property taxes of approximately $450,000 .
During fiscal years 1959 and 1960 , there were 139 military and civilian students who came to the Institute for varying periods of special instruction .
Two special issues were published , one for November 1959 on Space Medicine , the other the Tenth Anniversary issue for January 1960 .
There are hereby created in the Treasury of the United States ( 1 ) a special fund to be known as the Yugoslav Claims Fund ; ;
and ( 2 ) such other special funds as may , in the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury , be required each to be a claims fund to be known by the name of the foreign government which has entered into a settlement agreement with the Government of the United States as described in subsection ( A ) of Section 4 of this Title .
a special fund created for that purpose pursuant to subsection ( A ) of this section any amounts hereafter paid , in United States dollars , by a foreign government which has entered into a claims settlement agreement with the Government of the United States as described in subsection ( A ) of Section 4 of this Title .
During these early years the repair of watches and clocks and the building of special clocks for church steeples formed an important part of the young man's occupation .
The district officials , along with their other duties , were obliged to organize special demographic inquiries in selected areas and to supervise the annual tabulations of demographic statistics .
The registration card of a person leaving his home territory for a short period is put into a special file for absent persons .
A titre personnel and a special office was created in the Ministry of the Interior to plan and to conduct the elections .
During World War 2 , about 7.5 million persons were enrolled in courses organized under two special programs administered by state and local school authorities : ( 1 ) Vocational Education for National Defense , and ( 2 ) War Production Training .
The final step was a vote for a $230,000 bond issue for the construction of a sewage system by the 1959 town meeting , later confirmed by a two-thirds vote at a special town meeting June 21 , 1960 .
