

Sentences in cluster # 0
Moreover , he said , many qualified young people are not going into medicine and dentistry because they can't afford the schooling costs .
For a serious young man who plays golf with a serious intensity , Palmer has such an inherent sense of humor that it relieves the strain and keeps his nerves from jangling like banjo strings .
An interesting approach to the bedroom is presented , with a young , basic , functional group of chests , dressers and corner units and a canted headboard .
A young real estate salesman , Kern first got seriously interested in the problems posed by Communism when in the Navy Air Force .
The best approach , he figured , was to try to influence young people like the high schoolers he and his wife serve as advisors at First Presbyterian Church .
`` When you stand up in public and take vows to strive to set an example before your children and to teach them the fundamentals of the Christian faith , you strive a little harder to uphold those vows '' , explains the slender vice president of the young couples Sunday school class .
Until that first dedication service , he and Lois felt their children were too young to take part in any religious life at home .
After paying tribute to the conductor and his white-clad youthful students , President Kennedy said , `` As an American I have the greatest possible pride in the work that is being done in dozens of schools stretching across the United States -- schools where devoted teachers are studying with interested young men and women and opening up the whole wide horizon of serious music '' .
Displaying his knowledge of music , the New England-born President remarked that `` probably the best chamber music in the world is played in Vermont , by young Americans -- and here in this school where they have produced extraordinary musicians and teachers , and their work is being duplicated all across the United States .
Many of the music-loving members of the President's staff gathered around the tent listening and watching the rapt attention given by the young seated audience .
A lot of people were still thinking about Jack Nicklaus , the spectacular young amateur , who had a 70 ; ;
This catalogue lists separately films suitable for children , young adults , or adults , although some classics cut across age groups , such as `` Nanook Of The North '' , `` The Emperor's Nightingale '' , and `` The Red Balloon '' .
The probable answer is that it will do so just as long as Russia can exercise a veto in favor of chaos and until young African nations wake up to the truth that out of false pride they are visiting ruin on Central Africa .
It was the oldest and toughest question young lovers have ever asked : How can you be sure ? ?
For the young child this may be no more than providing food , light or movement .
but I am also a young , able and willing girl who wants to study the Chinese language but is not old enough .
The welfare of citizens , old and young , is the responsibility of the community , not only of that part of it that rides the Aj .
Many of our young people think it would .
In addition , would not the young female public of Washington be afforded a greater degree of protection at night when they are on the streets if they were accompanied by a dog on a leash ? ?
I grant that the dog may not be really protective , based on his training , but if you were roaming the streets looking for a purse to snatch or a young lady to molest , how quick would you be to attack a person strolling with a dog ? ?
I have been absolutely shocked at the ineptness of the young ladies who are servicing person-to-person calls , special long-distance calls , etc. .
between performances , enthusiastic young men from the audience will take the floor to demonstrate their own amateur graces .
It would be heartbreaking to see idealism , and hence effective leadership , thwarted by the poverty and hardship which young Americans will run into .
The performance also marked the debut of a most promising young conductor , Silvio Varviso .
Not that it is all funny , by any means , though some of it is definitely so , but simply that the dancers are young and handsome , high-spirited and communicative , and the program itself is as vivacious as it is varied .
the work uses the old eighteenth-century tradition of giving the part of a young inexperienced youth to a soprano .
The young Texas pianist can make great chords ring out as well as anyone , so last night the massive sonorities of this challenging concerto were no hazard to him .
Hirsch's Scapin is healthy , cheerful , energetic , revelling in his physical agility and his obvious superiority to the young gentlemen whom he serves .
Sharing the program was the young French-Canadian tenor Richard Verreau , making his stadium debut on this occasion .
The entrance of the Stadtisches Gesangverein ( Bonn's civic chorus ) was worth all the waiting , however , as the young Rhenish voices finally brought the music to life .
She is just home from a sojourn in London where she has become the sweetheart of a young fellow named Ronnie ( we never do see him ) and has been subjected to a first course in thinking and appreciating , including a dose of good British socialism .
A deft , hilarious satire on very high French society involving a statesman with two enviable possessions , a lovely young bride and a head containing such weighty thoughts that he has occasionally to remove it for greater comfort .
The truth is that any revival of traditional and indigenous religion will serve to promote that sense of identity and Volksgeist which these young nations very much need .
On the basis of what they give us we can know how the young Caruso sang , appreciate the distinctive qualities of Parsifal under Karl Muck's baton , or sense the type of ensemble Toscanini created in his years with the New York Philharmonic .
No young children may come without adults except for a specific , organized , chaperoned party .
This has saved us from constant requests seven days a week and made us feel less brutal to the young `` less fortunate '' than ours .
Life-preservers , the buckle-on kapok-filled kind , are held in readiness , too , for the very young .
Nevertheless , Prokofieff was much influenced by Paris during the Twenties : the Paris which was the artistic center of the Western World -- the social Paris to which Russian aristocracy migrated -- the chic Paris which attracted the tourist dollars of rich America -- the avant-garde Paris of Diaghileff , Stravinsky , Koussevitzky , Cocteau , Picasso -- the laissez-faire Paris of Dadaism and ultramodern art -- the Paris sympathique which took young composers to her bosom with such quick and easy enthusiasms .
So young Prokofieff was the darling of success : in his motherland ; ;
However , in all of Prokofieff's music , young or mature , we find his profile -- his `` signature '' -- his craftsman's attitude .
Russia's young gymnasts have studied dance before having the rigorous training on apparatus .
To be fit , one has to start early with young children , and today the only person who really reaches such children is the teacher of dance .
If the dance teachers of America make it their business to prepare their young charges for the gymnastics that must come some day if our schools are really responsible , we will be that much ahead .
So impressive were those serious years of study at the university that Hans later wrote , `` to be perfectly free , the young man must revel in the great kingdom of thought and imagination ; ;
A brisk , amusing man , apparently constructed on an ingenious system of spring-joints attuned to the same peppery rhythm as his mind , Smith began his academic career teaching speech to Barnard girls -- a project considerably enlivened by his devotion to a recording about `` a young rat named Arthur , who never could make up his mind '' .
When served in a psychological atmosphere that allows young bodies to assimilate the greatest good from what they eat because they are free from tension , a foundation is laid for a high level of health that releases the children from physical handicaps to participate with enjoyment in the work assignments , the athletic programs and the most important phase , the educational opportunities .
We recognize that young people through imaginative mind and body training can become athletes , acrobats , dancers , musicians and artists , developing many potentialities .
Some recent writings assume that the ignorant young couples are a thing of the remote , Victorian past ; ;
The indignant crusader sees the nude or semi-nude human form as `` lewd and pornographic , a threat and danger '' to all the young , or good , or religious , or moral persons .
Greene was in actuality a young ruffian from Kent , who had broken with his parents in order to keep the company he preferred -- pimps , panders and whores .
Occasionally gay young blades would write vividly to boon companions at home about their amorous exploits in Richmond , Petersburg , Washington , or Nashville .
There are hordes of nubile young women there who , prodded by their impatient mothers , are determined to marry .
This group had been Palfrey's greatest worry since Anna was in bad health , and her children were too young to work for their keep .
To be sure , in tool-and-die work and in the building trades , the first job must be often on an apprentice basis , but two years of half-time vocational training enables the young man thus to anticipate one year of apprentice status .
It draws young people into the circle of those who continue the life of the church from generation to generation .
It is not developing an awareness of the new kind of missionary strategy that is called for as young churches emerge in Asia and Africa .
) The sorry fact about this young man , who was barely of age when he broke into major-league baseball , was that he really was a better ball player than he was given credit for being -- never so good as he claimed , and always an irritant to his associates , but a good steady performer when he could fight down the temptation to orate on his skills or cut up in public .
In his minor way Charles Arthur Shires was perhaps more typical of his era than Ruth was , for he was but one of many young men who laid waste their talents in these Scott Fitzgerald days for the sake of earning space in the newspapers .
The movie was The Great Train Robbery and its effects on the young industry and art were all but incalculable .
`` Is the attitude of German youth comparable to that of `` the angry young men ' of England '' ? ?
When I mentioned that for my first long voyage I did not even have the money for the return fare , but had trusted to luck that I would earn a sufficient amount , the young people looked at me doubtingly .
The young printer's apprentice achieved greatness in a half-dozen different fields , as editor and publisher , scientist , inventor , philanthropist and statesman .
`` Think continentally '' , Hamilton counseled the young nation .
We enjoyed a paradoxical freedom when we were still too young for school .
The cyclist , a sufficiently commonplace young fellow , is not named but identified simply as `` Life '' -- that and a license number , which Piepsam uses in addressing him .
In Plato's judgment , the arts play a meaningful role in society only in the education of the young , prior to the full development of their intellectual powers .
Studying The Merchant Of Venice in high school and college has given many young people their notions about Jews .
The young writer seems intimidated by psychological knowledge ; ;
The young William Faulkner in New Orleans in the 1920's impressed the novelist Hamilton Basso as obviously conscious of being a Southerner , and there is no evidence that since then he has ever considered himself any less so .
Thorpe came to Louisiana from the East as a young man prepared to find in the new country the setting of romantic adventure and idealized beauty .
A smart , shrewd and ambitious young man , well connected , and with a knack for getting in the good graces of important people , he was bound to go far .
and , as in the March home , any young man who called on the Szolds found himself confronted with a phalanx of femininity which made it rather difficult to direct his particular attention to any one of them .
and when a young man like Morris Jastrow had enjoyed the Szold hospitality , he felt obliged to send his respects and his gifts not merely to Henrietta , in whom he was really interested , but to all the Szold girls and Mamma .
By this time she had learned that it was futile to argue with her young husband , yet the uncomfortable fact remained : the American Congregationalists were sending them as missionaries to the Far East and paying their salaries .
Defoe then commented , `` If they Could Draw that young Gentleman into Their Measures They would show themselves quickly , for they are not asham'd to Say They want only a head to Make a beginning '' .
Called out a dozen young voices .
O my genius , young and ripening , you would swear , -- when I wrote them ; ;
That she was affected by his protestations seems obvious , but since she was evidently a sensible young woman -- as well as an outgoing and sympathetic type -- it would seem that for her the word friendship had a far less intense emotional significance than that which Thompson gave it .
They would be lolling under a tree sipping Ouzo , relishing the leisurely life , assuring him that the day was yet young .
The young people were self-energizing , and I was energized .
When the young biologist , Dr. Ballard , began to show interest in our daughter Elizabeth , this induced a corresponding interest , on our part , in him .
While Aristotle censors literature only for the young , Plato would banish all poets from his ideal state .
In the ideal state , for instance , he argues that the young citizens should hear only the most carefully selected tales and stories .
and the young people should not even be permitted to see comedies till they are old enough to drink strong wine and sit at the public tables .
As they move through the college years our young men and women are `` socialized '' into a broadly similar culture , at the level of personal behavior .
At the same time , a major proportion of these young men and women see religion as a means of personal adjustment , an anchor for family life , a source of emotional security .
But , here again , comparative benchmarks are lacking , and we do not know , in any case , what measure of profoundity and intensity to expect from healthy , young , secure and relatively inexperienced persons ; ;
He concluded that selective service would not only prevent the disorganization of essential war industries but would avoid the undesirable moral effects of the British reliance on enlistment only -- `` where the feeling of the people was whipped into a frenzy by girls pinning white feathers on reluctant young men , orators preaching hate of the Germans , and newspapers exaggerating enemy outrages to make men enlist out of motives of revenge and retaliation '' .
Affirmatively Baker worked on the premise that `` young men spontaneously prefer to be decent , and that opportunities for wholesome recreation are the best possible cure for irregularities in conduct which arise from idleness and the baser temptations '' .
With facts mainly in his mind , he was often acute in the matter of style , and he said , `` The young who have as yet nothing to say will try larks with initial letters and broken lines .
No other names among the young men in residence at the time seem to have been even suggested by Milton as those of persons with whom he in any way consorted .
Perhaps , in that short piece or letter written to Hartlib in which he sketched his scheme for educating young men , he merely overlooked that phase of their exercises .
`` Looking young for your age '' means `` for your age '' and it means no more .
A mind expressing itself in words may reveal itself a little less obviously as old or young .
The pessimism of the young is defiant , anxious to confess or even exaggerate its ostensible gloom , and so exuberant as to reveal the fact that it regards its ability to face up to the awful truth as more than enough to compensate for the awfulness of that truth .
If it proclaims that the best is yet to be , it always arouses , at least in the young , either a suspicious question or perhaps the exclamation of the Negro youth who saw on a tombstone the inscription , `` I am not dead but sleeping '' .
We may say of some unfortunates that they were never young .
To those of my readers who find many of my opinions morally , or politically , or sociologically antiquated ( and I have reason to know that there are some such ) , I would like to say what I have already hinted , namely , that some of my opinions may indeed be subject to some discount on the simple ground that I am no longer young and therefore incapable of being youthful of mind .
But Krim's complaint is important because not only in New York , but in other cities and in universities throughout this country , young and not , so young men at
You have heard him tell these young people that during his almost 50 years of service in the Congress he has seen the Kaisers and the Hitlers and the Mussolinis , the Tojos and Stalins and Khrushchevs , come and go and that we are passing on to them the freest Nation that mankind has ever known .
Then I have seen the pride of country well in the eyes of these young people .
With thousands of young Americans going to work in developing areas , millions of Americans will become more directly involved in the world than ever before .
One of the greatest obstacles to the achievement of this goal is the lack of trained men and women with the skill to teach the young and assist in the operation of development projects -- men and women with the capacity to cope with the demands of swiftly evolving economics , and with the dedication to put that capacity to work in the villages , the mountains , the towns and the factories of dozens of struggling nations .
Initiating a program to control dwarf mistletoe on several hundred thousand acres of selected better stands of young softwood sawtimber on better growing sites .
I must add at once that these animals are what we call `` queens '' , young females that have mated in the previous summer or autumn .
a marvelous arrangement , for it provides exactly what the bee queens need to make their beebread , a combination of honey and pollen with which the young of all species are fed .
By the middle of the summer , many of the larvae apparently receive such a good diet that it is `` optimal '' , and it is then that young queens begin to appear .
Lawrence E. Griffin gives measurements of nineteen young anacondas , presumably members of a brood , from `` South America '' ; ;
Alphonse R. Hoge's measurements of several very young specimens from Brazil suggest that at birth the female is slightly larger than the male .
Overwhelmed with the care of five young children and concerned about persistent economic difficulties due to her husband's marginal income , her defense of denial was excessively strong .
A borderline schizophrenic young man told me that to him the various theoretical concepts about which he had been expounding , in a most articulate fashion , during session after session with me , were like great cubes of almost tangibly solid matter up in the air above him ; ;
In there aren't many young people in the neighborhood the modifier young takes dominant stress away from its head people : the fact that the young creatures of interest are people seems rather obvious .
Martin and Stendler present evidence that infants and young children can and do solve many problems at a relatively simple perceptual level simply by combining objects and counting them .
Typically , the young child's emotional reactions last for a relatively short time , as contrasted to those of an adult .
The young child learns from parents and teachers that temper tantrums , screaming , kicking , and hitting will not get him what he wants ; ;
In Pimen's cell the soft prayers of the monks , heard from offstage , not only help to set the scene but emphasize the contrast between young Grigori's thoughts and his situation .
It is obviously a young man's poem , written out of books and not out of experience ; ;
More of this stamping down of human emotion as a young lawyer in New York .
Therefore , he decided he was unfair to the young man and should make an effort to understand and sympathize with his point of view .
The young banker looked at him with a certain surprise , and then he said flatly : `` I'm afraid I can't tell you anything in particular about Kent House .
He spent concentrated weeks putting his two figures together : a Mary who would be young and sensitive , yet strong enough to hold her son on her lap ; ;
`` You are young , intelligent , have a whole lifetime before you to make something worth while of yourself , but you mess it up with whiskey , indifference , self-destructive attitudes .
If Mr. Skyros had dreamed of all the trouble that young man would eventually cause --
There was excuse enough to keep him home that young Mr. Arthur's still over there '' .
But -- it happened , almost always , among the primitive and , usually , among the very young .
But they have survived for long periods as races , whereas you are young .
We will gladly entertain your young and give them proper living quarters , in return for their help in running our fusion reactors .
`` Did they remember to program a sense of humor , as well , young lady '' ? ?
The rest of the time I devoted to painting or to those other activities a young and healthy man just out of college finds interesting .
But a young American has a bath next to his room and I shall ask him if you might use it this once .
He was a huge young man of twenty-four , clothed in muscle , immensely strong , with a habitual gentleness and diffidence of manner that was submerged under his present agitation .
With all respect to a fine young man , Mr. Roy is not able to provide these necessaries '' .
This young slave was therefore quite unprepared when Delphine Lalaurie signaled that she wanted him to draw near .
`` It would make me feel a lot better , but the Woman's Exchange isn't taking baked goods any more and I can't leave the baby with Grandma because she isn't strong enough and the baby's too young to be put in a nursery '' .
Though he was glad she got on well with his young folks , she ought to be welcome at the finest house in the land , too .
But she was learning that so long as she was in this country , and wore civilian dress in the Club , there would always be transient young men who would approach her with broken English .
She certainly looked Japanese , and perhaps she could not really blame the young men .
Doc Doolittle's scheduled appearance at captain's mast was a very unusual thing , because the discipline dispensed there is ordinarily for the young and immature , and a chief is naturally expected to stay off the report .
He had come into the Navy too young , with the image of the fun-loving Guns Appleby before him .
He remained young at heart , with an overdeveloped sense of humor .
On the defensive , he added , `` I wish you'd think what it must be like for her to be without Greg , to be a new widow , a young widow '' .
I had a feeling that young Pete Michelson , the most promising intern at Fairview , had something to do with it , too .
My love for Johnnie was young and clean -- how could I possibly compete with a woman like that , who didn't hesitate to use her sex .
The more I probed into this young man's activities and character , the less savory I found him .


Sentences in cluster # 1
The mother of young queen , Mrs. G. Henry Pierson Jr. chose a white brocade gown made on slim lines with panels of tomato-red and bright green satin extending down the back .
`` I bought my first dress from him when I was still a struggling young actress '' , she reminisces .
And you'll notice that in both places , there are acres of charming young ladies who with little effort spice up any chow line .
A young man doesn't like to be driven up in front of a school in a car driven by a girl who isn't even in a higher class than he is , and is also a girl .
The young couple live in Pasadena .
By his own confession , Maris is an angry young man .
He caught officer Simmons' eye , nodded toward young Bearden , and -- `` I swung my right as hard as I could .
But when some of the squeals had subsided and she had been through one of those sessions that are so indispensable to the young female -- six girls sprawled on one bed , drinking Cokes and giggling -- she came back to the kitchen to talk with me a minute .
She has studied and observed and she is convinced that her young man is going to be endlessly enchanting .
Suddenly one young voice rose above the others .
Here in the cool darkness Mr. Podger could still feel the warmth of midday , could still see the yellow butterflies dancing over the road , could still see the friendly grin on the young , sun-browned face as the driver looked back over his shoulder for a moment before the car streaked out of sight .
`` Sure , we met a barrel of rich men but it's hard to find the real thing when you're young , beautiful and the toast of two continents '' `` Remember Fanny Brice promised my mother she would look after me on the road '' ? ?
Upon a visit to a local junior college last week , I was shocked to see the young ladies wearing short shorts and the young men wearing Bermuda shorts .
Clearly the most provocative plays are all imported originals -- A Taste Of Honey , by Britain's young ( 19 when she wrote it ) Shelagh Delaney ; ;
This is an exciting young actor to watch .
Benita Valente was delightful as the young wife and John Parella was amusing as the tutor who failed to do all his tutoring .
To help him on this religious aspect of primitive jazz he had `` Big '' Miller , as a preacher-singer and Hannah Dean , Gospel-singer , while Oscar Brown Jr. , an extremely talented young man , did a slave auctioneer's call , a field-hands' work song , and a beautifully sung Negro lullaby , `` Brown Baby '' , which was one of the truly moving moments of the festival .
the amusing `` Yurochka '' , in which a hard-to-please young man is given his come-uppance ; ;
Why did Prokofieff expand in stature and fecundity , while Stravinsky ( who leaped into fame like a young giant ) dwindled in stature and fruitfulness ? ?
The wife is likely to be young , sophisticated , smart as a whip -- often a girl who has sacrificed a promising career for marriage .
When Richard's parents told him they wanted to take him to an orthodontist -- a dentist who specializes in realigning teeth and jaws -- their young son was interested .
He was also at the same time gaining practical experience as a safe breaker and highwayman , and learning how to shoot to kill from a Neanderthal convicted murderer named Gene Geary , later committed to Chester Asylum as a homicidal maniac , but whose eyes misted with tears when the young Dion sang a ballad about an Irish mother in his clear and syrupy tenor .
The young man spoke steadily enough , but all at once he looked grotesquely unshaven .
One young girl told me how her mother removed a wart from her finger by soaking a copper penny in vinegar for three days and then painting the finger with the liquid several times .
Most of the wines of Beaujolais , on the other hand , should be drunk while very young ; ;
Ulyate and Kearton climbed on toward the sound of the barking of the dogs and the sporadic roaring of the lion , till they came , out of breath , to the crest , and peering through the branches of a bush , this is what Ulyate saw : Jones who had apparently ( and actually had ) ridden up the nearly impassable hillside , sitting calmly on his horse within forty feet of a full-grown young lioness , who was crouched on a flat rock and seemed just about to charge him , while the dogs whirled around her .
and buggies and wagons and chugging Fords kept gathering all morning , until the edges of the field were packed thick and small boys kept scampering out on the playing field to make fun of the visitors -- whose pitcher was a formidable looking young man with the only baseball cap .
One young man , exhilarated to the point of insanity by liquor and the excitement of the moment , performed a perfect swan dive out of the stands at the Yale Bowl during the Yale-Army football game , landed squarely on his head on the concrete ramp below , and died at once .
In the afternoon Miss Hosaka and her mother invited me to go with them and young Mrs. Kodama to see the famous Spring dances of the Geisha dancers .
I don't mean a few aesthetes who play about with sensations , like a young prince in a miniature dabbling his hand in a pool .
I think that we are here also talking of the kind of fear that a young boy has for a group of boys who are approaching at night along the streets of a large city .
The young poet-painter reproduces the French life of the streets ; ;
so Cyrus Adler became interested in her friend Racie Friedenwald , and Joe Jastrow -- the only young man who when he wrote had the temerity to address her as Henrietta , and signed himself Joe -- fell in love with pretty sister Rachel .
One thing Papa had not taught Henrietta was how to handle a young man as high-spirited and opinionated as herself .
Then , with staring eyes and lips drawn thin , Miriam said to the young woman , `` You are ugly -- uglier than you used to be , and you were always very ugly .
Only what else was she singing but the old Song of Songs , that most ancient of tunes that nature plays with such unfailing response upon young nerves ? ?
`` This is no place for a young girl '' , he said .
She was pious , too , once kneeling through the night from Holy Thursday to Good Friday , despite the protest of the nuns that this was too much for a young girl .
`` Yes '' , Gross went on , `` Bang-Jensen was an up-and-coming young man .
I remember one day when Mr. Hearst ( and I never knew why he liked me , either ) sent the Hetman a telegram : `` Please find some more reporters like that young man from Denver '' .
When Prudence and Blackberry were too young to be trusted in the dining room , they were tied to the radiator with their leashes , and they would cry .
I stood on a table , surrounded by hundreds of expectant young faces .
At that moment , up walked a tall young man with glasses who announced himself as a world citizen from Basel , Switzerland .
He was then a slightly built young man of pleasing appearance , medium stature , and handsome face .
We often say of a person that he `` looks young for his age '' or `` old for his age '' .
So did his friend , the young novelist Rimanelli .
He was a well-to-do , handsome , and sensitive young poet .
I keep thinking of a young woman I knew during the Occupation in Austria .
In I knew you when you were a child , and you were pretty then dominant stress on then implies that the young woman spoken to is still pretty .
`` Husky young man '' , he said with mock distaste .
This young man had so little time to learn he had to be curious ; ;
Wilson again went downtown to a different banker , an intelligent young white man who seemed rather sympathetic , but he shook his head .
Under the trees , there was a dead redcoat , a young boy with a pasty white skin and a face full of pimples , who had taken a rifle ball directly between the eyes .
He knew the faces of all , hairy or shaven , old or young , fat or thin , suffering or hardened , sad or gay , good or bad .
He was seeing , somehow , the face of a young boy , the boy Simms Purdew must once have been , a boy with sorrel hair , and blue eyes dancing with gaiety , and the boy mouth grinning trustfully among the freckles .
That other Jew , a young man too , had left that greatcoat behind , in a rich house , and marched away .
What had that man , that other young Jew , felt as he stood in the twilight and heard other men , far away , singing together ? ?
A young woman who looked like Alix , with her two children .
His image of the Virgin had always been that of a young woman , even as had his memory of his mother .
Then she took iced lemonade to Marsh's young aide where he sat in the cool of the big trees around the flower garden .
And indeed the young garden beans were brackish in her mouth .
In the kitchen , Leona , his little young wife , was reading the morning paper .
too young and thin and straight .
The letters took their source from a stream of my imagination in which I was transformed into a young man not unlike my bunkmate Eliot Sands -- he of the porch steps anecdotes -- who smoked cigarettes , performed the tango , wore fifty dollar suits , and sneaked off into the dark with girls to do unimaginable things with them .
There was a very old man and a young woman and a brood of children ranging from toddlers to teen-agers .
A second scene flashed before his mind , the interior of the garage at the new house and the young Bartlett girl turning startled to meet him , the dim dark and the sudden confusion and fear and then the brightness as Mae had clicked on the light .
You're not only young but well , you don't even look like a police officer .
The clerk was young and limp , with a tired smile .
Next to him was a young boy I was sure had sat near me at one of the trading sessions .
I saw the pony fall like a stone and the young warrior flew over its head , bouncing like a rubber ball .
It was pitiful to see the thin ranks of warriors , old and young , wheeling and twisting their ponies frantically from side to side only to be tumbled bleeding from their saddles by the relentless slam , slam of the cruelly efficient Hawkinses .
Donna , his young wife , the girl who was both daughter and wife to him .
Pat paused there , looking across at the young fellow .
I myself was fond of him but what a young woman half his age saw in him was a mystery to me .
In the small gallery used as the guests' dining room , Meredith sat down at his place and , as always , began teasing the young waitress .
His new poem , a love poem , told of a young husband leading his wife upstairs to the bedroom when the lights in the house have failed .
He replenished the dipper and handed it to his young wife riding the hurricane deck .
The patrolman said to no one in particular as he pushed between the fat man in the baseball cap and a young boy in levis .
The story was shaping up nicely in his mind : the young pioneer , as of old , altruistically braving the unknown ; ;
Chairs scraped back and customers hastily vacated their tables as the tall young buffalo hunter pushed open the swing doors and walked towards the bar .
Then when Miss Langford was on the end of the line of girls , Jack , in the middle of the line , gave an extra hard pull and the young teacher sprawled backwards , sitting down hard , her dress flying over her head .
On the fringe of the amused throng of white onlookers stood a young woman of remarkable beauty and poise .
`` Another young man , my dear ? ?
The manservant Devol and his mistress , Delphine Lalaurie , were pursuing a young girl -- an octoroon of cameo-like beauty -- across the front lawn of the Lalaurie mansion .
`` Y're the young Blackwell woman .
She put a strong hand under the old man's arm and lifted him up , patiently , with the gentle cruelty and necessary tyranny that the young show toward the very old .
There was a gabble of voices from indoors , young hungry sounds like cats after fish , and a burst of swearing from the old man .
She felt , rather than saw , the approach of the good-looking young man .
Then the young man in the brown sports jacket spoke , and it was no different .
A young man appeared out of a side alley and walked toward us with quick strides .
Rachel had seen me watching the young man .
`` When your mother was here he must have been a young boy .
Yet he walked like a young man .
Back at the Factory-to-You with the other old maids , back there she was the youngest clerk and she was thirty-four , which made her young enough to resent the usual ideal working conditions , like the unventilated toilet with the door you had to hold shut while you sat down .
`` Go take helsq'iyokom , your evil spirit , to the young boys '' , the woman said .
`` Go back to that double-married man of yours who so parades his fine body among the young women .
For a while the young men waited outside the lodge of TuHulHulZote , glorying in his harsh language as he talked with himself .
He amused the young men who had been silent long enough .
And so the sun came up again and for a moment its color was the young men's blood , shifting then into the full heat and outcry which ran with their hearts .
young chief stared at the wall of his lodge , , listening .
Jim's fine young face was an expressive one , too ; ;
Linda accepted the reproach , which was something she did rarely in all her life and most rarely in that summer of 1936 when she was by all odds the prettiest and brightest young woman west of the Allegheny Mountains , and John was surely one of the handsomer and brighter young men around Pittsburgh .
John had claimed her from the stag line , a young man a year out of Dartmouth with skiing crinkles still around his eyes .
He was a bright and handsome young man from New York , who worked for the same steel company as John did .
I drove off through the cool darkness to Nadine's apartment and rang the bell , and in a few seconds a young girl opened the door .
She was blonde , and young , and nice and round in a tight white dress .
She got up , standing uncertainly for a moment , then moving aside to let go past her , talking , a group of young men .
Under normal circumstances , he had a certain bright-eyed all-American-boy charm , with great appeal for young ladies , old ladies , and dogs .
You young men get to be my age , you won't take flu so lightly '' .
`` Well , it's at Fudomae and there was a tan young man , quite naked , taking a shower in the pool .
I know a guy named Jack Hamrick , a very bright young engineer who was with Chrysler , and I took him with me to Allstates .
At the same time , however , I availed myself of the services of that great English actor and master of make-up , Sir Gauntley Pratt , to do a `` quickie '' called The Mystery of the Mad Marquess , in which I played a young American girl who inherits a haunted castle on the English moors which is filled with secret passages and sliding panels and , unbeknownst to anyone , is still occupied by an eccentric maniac .


Sentences in cluster # 2
That , he added , was when he was `` a very young man , a machinist and toolmaker by trade .
Princess Moune , Prince Souvanna Phouma's young daughter , read the Princes' statement .
Kerr , who set the world record earlier this month in New York with a clocking of 1.09.3 , wiped out Mills's early pace and beat the young Big 10 quarter-mile king by 5 yards .
The Richard S. Burkes' home in Wayne may be the setting for the wedding reception for their daughter , Helen Lambert , and the young Italian she met last year while studying in Florence during her junior year at Smith college .
Members of the young set who would like to come to the party only during the dancing time are welcomed .
Her young British lawyer , James Dunlop , pleaded that she was sorely needed at her Portland home by her widowed mother , 80 , her maiden aunt , also 80 and bedridden for 20 years , and her uncle , 76 , who once ran a candy shop .
`` In the same five year period that the United States says they ( the detectives ) were engaged in this conspiracy '' , Sokol continued , `` these three young men received a total of 26 creditable mentions and many special compensations , and were nominated for the Lambert Tree award and the mayor's medal '' .
Patrolman James F. Simms said he started in pursuit when he saw young Stickney speeding north in Stewart Avenue at Central Street .
When the verdict came in against his young neighbor , Hengesbach said :
A young man was killed and two others injured at midnight Friday when the car they were riding slid into a utility pole on Lake Avenue near Waddell Street , NE , police said .
The fire ant is thought to infest approximately two million acres of land in Georgia , attacking crops , young wildlife and livestock and can be a serious health menace to humans who are allergic to its venom , Blasingame said .
Tim Larson , a junior at Wilson High School and president of Spice-Nice , is the young executive who guided his firm to the top-ranking position over the 4,500 other Junior Achievement companies in the United States and Canada .
President Kennedy couldn't stay away from his desk for the 75-minute young people's concert played on the White House lawn yesterday by the 85-piece Transylvania Symphony Orchestra from Brevard , N. C. .
At 4 p.m. the President left the White House to welcome the young musicians , students from the ages of 12 to 18 who spend six weeks at the Brevard Music Center summer camp , and to greet the 325 crippled , cardiac and blind children from the District area who were special guests at the concert .
He pointed out to the young musicians that the National Gallery `` is the only museum in the country to have a full-time music director , Richard Bales .
The judge listened quietly as the young woman poured out her frustrations -- then discussing with her the possibility of seeking aid from Family Service before going to a lawyer .
The House was his habitat and there he flourished , first as a young representative , then as a forceful committee chairman , and finally in the post for which he seemed intended from birth , Speaker of the House , and second most powerful man in Washington .
The young married people ; ;
And so the young minister resigned , to go and study and pray , having never passed a day , he told his parishioners , when `` I did not gain from you far more than I ever gave to you '' .
`` We have just returned from Roswell , N.M. , where we were defeated , 34 to 9 '' , the young man noted .
A bunch of young buckaroos from out West , who go by the name of Texas Boys Choir , loped into Town Hall last night and succeeded in corralling the hearts of a sizable audience .
The angriest young man in Newport last night was at the Playhouse , where `` Epitaph For George Dillon '' opened as the jazz festival closed .
Herr Wangenheim has only recently become the city's music director , and is a young man with a clear flair for the podium .
As a youth he became one of Finney's band of evangelists and gave himself to winning young men .
A group of young men influenced by him enrolled in Lane Theological Seminary and had to leave because of their open anti-slavery position .
They borrowed a typewriter , raised about $2,000 in contributions , hired a secretary , persuaded a couple of young men to join them for almost no pay and began mailing out a collection of unstapled leaflets that they called Guideposts .
) In most sports , as in most walks of life , the angels are on the side of those who begin young , and the Russian competitor of 16 has at least thirteen years of training behind him .
SAAMI's field men have served as consultants and/or have participated in 75 Teen Hunter Club activities which have reached over 40,000 enthusiastic young Americans .
Even though it was known that the Luftwaffe in the north was now being directed by the young and energetic General Peltz , the commander who would conduct the `` Little Blitz '' on London in 1944 , a major raid on Bari at this juncture of the war was not to be considered seriously .
`` most orthodontic work is done on children between the ages of 10 and 14 , though there have been patients as young as two and as old as 55 '' , says Dr. Brodie .
Of only one could he be sure -- young John Hudson , his second son .
One of the more seriously wounded was Lieutenant Carroll , the young officer bucking for the Regular Army .
They arrived in Washington about the same time during the early postwar years : Kennedy as the young Congressman from Massachusetts ; ;
At that time Jennings had a young law associate named Arthur S. Phillips .
He recalled Lucy , as `` a bright-looking black-eyed young lady who came regularly through the boys' study hall to join the class in Greek in the little recitation room beyond '' .
The fluidity and momentum of the young industry abetted a general disregard of patent claims .
Wasn't this an unusually young age to fill such a responsible post ? ?
`` You must have some security '' , said a young clerk .
In the following year her father undertook to give a course in Hebrew theology to Johns Hopkins students , and this brought to the Szold house a group of bright young Jews who had come to Baltimore to study , and who enjoyed being fed and mothered by Mamma and entertained by Henrietta and Rachel , who played and sang for them in the upstairs sitting room on Sunday evenings .
And like Jo March , who saw her sisters Meg and Amy involved in `` lovering '' before herself , Henrietta saw her sisters Rachel and Sadie drawn outside their family circle by the attraction of suitors , Rachel by Joe Jastrow , and Sadie by Max Lobl , a young businessman who would write her romantic descriptions of his trips by steamboat down the Mississippi .
Miriam Noel disregarded the free advice of her departing counselor , and appointed a heavy-faced young man named Harold Jackson to take his place .
But her father was not enthusiastic about sending young Paula to high school .
The sickness was gone and , after all , the two young couples were on their honeymoon .
By the age of six young Johnny indicated that he had the call .
Asked a young mustached Frenchman .
In `` My Song's Young Virgin Date '' , for example , Thompson wrote : `` Yea , she that had my song's young virgin date Not now , alas , that noble singular she , I nobler hold , though marred from her once state , Than others in their best integrity .
From Milan came the young Chevalier De Litta , an officer in the service of Malta .
England contributed a young subaltern named Newton and the naval architect Samuel Bentham , brother to the economist , who for his colonel's commission was proving a godsend to the Russian fleet .
Right now he found Sophie De Witt , that magnificent young matron he had spotted at Kamieniec four years ago .
This was taken after I came to live in Springfield , and it was made under the guidance of the Reverend Raymond Beardslee , a young preacher who came to the Congregational Church there at about the same time that I moved from New York .
In early June ten million young men registered by name and number .
He was in London `` searching records for our town's causes '' in 1600 with young Henry Sturley , the assistant schoolmaster .
We were at a party once and heard an idealistic young European call that awful charge glorious .
Some of the marble busts in the park are of young Englishmen who fought and died for Garibaldi .
In addition , by starting the Peace Corps now we will be able to begin training young men and women for overseas duty this summer with the objective of placing them in overseas positions by late fall .
During these early years the repair of watches and clocks and the building of special clocks for church steeples formed an important part of the young man's occupation .
The young apprentice apparently did well by Mr. Brown , for in the third year of his apprenticeship Lucian was offered a full partnership in the firm ; ;
After another two weeks , the first young emerge , four to eight small daughters that begin to play the role of worker bees , collecting pollen and nectar in the field and caring for the new young generation while the queen retires to a life of egg laying .
The young queens and drones leave the nest and mate , and after a short period of freedom , the fertilized young queens will begin to dig in for the winter .
He concluded that in the southern species , which are rapidly growing types , females mate at the age of two and a half and bear the first young when they are three .
Other herpetologists have ascertained that in the northern United States the prairie rattlesnake may not give first birth until it is four or even five years old , and that the young may be born every other year , rather than annually .
William Beebe reports 26 inches and 2.4 ounces ( this snake must have been emaciated ) for the length and the weight of a young anaconda from British Guiana .
In contrast , Ditmars recorded the average length of seventy-two young of a 19-foot female as 38 inches , and four young were born in London at a length of 35 or 36 inches and a weight of from 14 to 16 ounces .
Carl Kauffeld has written to me of sexual activity in February 1943 of young born in March 1940 .
It ranged from a freshman woman , just married , through the various academic growth stages , including one senior-graduate student , to a young faculty member recently married to a senior man who also attended .
It may seem strange that a poet should come to full fruition in his seventies , but we have it on Hardy's own authority that `` he was a child till he was sixteen , a youth till he was five-and-twenty , and a young man till he was nearly fifty '' ( Early Life , p. 42 ) .
`` I soon came back to my senses '' , he said , aloud , to the young blizzard , proudly , drawing himself up , as if making a report to some important superior .
Here he sketched , sitting in their flowing gowns of linen and silk , young girls not yet twenty , some about to be married , some married a year or two .
They put Kate to bed and wired Jonathan and sent for the young Presbyterian minister .
She thought again of her children , those two who had died young , before the later science which might have saved them could attach even a label to their separate malignancies .
They were both so young , after all , so unready for any final parting .
( Call it mentally young ; ;
that Mrs. Garth would be impeccably suitable as the wife of a rising young lawyer ; ;
An only child , he had done all the things that young men do who have been born to money and social position until his father double-crossed him by dying broke .
She had grown up with young Jenkins , and he had heard that they had been at the point of getting married at least twice .
They crawled through the north fence and came on toward him , and now he saw that both were young , not more than nineteen or twenty .
( Would she have been able to had she known that the blanket belonged to a young ballet dancer Nicolas had found his first night in one of Walter's marked bars ? ?
Just six weeks after Dandy Brandon's arrival at the mansion , the little surgeon and his svelte young wife gave their annual open house and ball , to which only New Orleans' oldest and wealthiest families were invited .
There lay Grand Fair's Quinzaine , his own young parents' graves , but new life and promise for his sons , grandsons .
if Tommy sat long enough , she would be sure to see all the young officers she had met in San Diego and Long Beach .
The nice-looking young officer fell back on his heels , open-mouthed and blushing .
And tomorrow she would take time to shop for the kimono her mother wanted to present to the young wife of a faculty member as a hostess gown .
Rachel steered me along toward a school for young boys beginning to study the Torah .
And a very young one , Swan Necklace , tried to emulate them and followed timidly .
Yellow Wolf was there , nephew of the young chief by an older brother long dead , in whom also the disordered chemistries of youth worked .
All the young men , Alokut among them , challenged them in matched racing .
He and Sarpsis planned a great parade with the young men .
There was the Arc de Triomphe and the Tour d'Eiffel -- I was no yokel , but I was young , and this was Paris ! !
My cousin Alma , at whose home I was staying during the convention , introduced me to a group of young people from Rhode Island .
Having ( through my unflagging effort and devotion ) achieved stardom , a fortune and a world-renowned wife at an age when most young men are casting their first vote , Letch proceeded to neglect them all .
Most of our working days were spent on the telephone calling `` bookies '' , illegal gambling dens , a certain `` residential club for young actresses '' , more than a hundred different bars or the steam room of the athletic club .
